First, let's talk about apostasy, and we'll call it spiritual poison.
Now, think about poison.
What's the best way to avoid being poisoned?
Well, we have to recognize poison when we see it, and then avoid it.
And the same principle applies to teachings that could destroy our faith.
And that's not always easy.
Now, not many of our brothers and sisters would deliberately get involved with apostates,
but it could happen without our realizing it.
Now, we receive letters at times from brothers and sisters who were troubled by something
they saw on a web page, an accusation, a rumour about the society or about the organization,
and the problem is they had no idea that apostates were behind it.
It's tricky, because the apostates don't advertise you are now on an apostate web
page.
They often pose as sincere witnesses who just have questions or concerns.
And some who aren't really apostates can cause just as much trouble as the apostates do
by their negative talk and criticism.
Brothers, we need to be on the alert.
This is serious.
Suppose that out of curiosity, you get into a discussion forum with individuals who claim
to meet your home as witnesses.
Now, maybe they are.
Maybe they aren't.
You don't know.
You've never met them.
And someone starts asking questions.
What did you think of last month's broadcast?
Did you really find it encouraging?
Or do you think the brothers who write watched our articles are living in the real world?
I wonder if they realize just how hard it is out here.
And then a few others join in with their own negative comments.
Now you don't know whether these individuals are apostates or just brothers and sisters
who are in serious spiritual trouble.
But does it matter?
How does it make you feel?
When you leave the forum, do you feel up-built, determined to expand your ministry?
More convinced than ever that Jehovah has an organization that you love and that you're
delighted to be a part of you feel honored to be a part of that organization?
Or does the experience leave you sad?
Un-easy, uncomfortable.
Now someone might say, I need to get involved in that forum so I can help those people.
They shouldn't be together.
Even if they are apostates, they're not good for one another.
Staying in that forum to help someone is like holding his hand while he drinks poison
and then having some yourself so he doesn't have to drink alone.
We need to follow the advice recorded at Romans chapter 16 and verse 17.
Now think of this imaginary forum that we just described in the light of Romans chapter 16 and
verse 17.
I remember there's all kinds of negative top flying around in this forum.
You don't know who's behind it.
And here's what it says in Romans 16 verse 17.
Now I urge you brothers to keep your eye on those who create divisions and causes
for stumbling contrary to the teaching that you have learned and avoid them.
Now think about that forum.
Does it create divisions?
Yes.
Is it a cause for stumbling?
Could be.
Is it contrary to what we have learned?
Do we even have to answer that question?
Now whether it's intended or not, the effect will be to weaken our faith.
So what do we do?
What does Paul tell us to do here at the end of verse 17?
He says, avoid them.
No, I'd like to say a kind word to some who may be involved in discussion forums.
You may like to use this medium to blow off steam, so to speak.
Maybe there are little things in the congregation that are happening that you wonder about or
decisions the elders have made that you wonder about and so you get involved in the forum
and you blow off steam and after that you feel better.
But what about others in the forum?
How do they feel?
Wouldn't you feel awful if negative comments you made were responsible for someone leaving
the truth?
I know you wouldn't want that to happen.
So please, please be careful about what you say.
Now another person might say, well I can see where those warnings about apostates applied
to so-and-so, he's weak, but don't worry about me, I'm spiritually strong, I can handle
it.
That's like a weightlifter, thinking that he can drink a vile of poison and it won't
hurt him because he's so big and strong.
We are not so strong, so spiritual, so intelligent, that we can't be affected by the poison of
apostate ideas.